---
layout: article
title: "The Heart and the Brain in a Bar"
date: 2024-09-16 14:00:00 -0300
permalink: /heart-vs-brain/
categories: relationships
author: César Alves
image: /images/heart-and-brain.jpg
excerpt: The Heart and the Brain casually chat about Relationships. The story includes alcohol and a decent dose of humor.
meta_description: 
keywords: internação, psicologia
---

## The Heart and the Brain in a bar

“The Heart decides”, told me the Second Moon, during a conversation about relationships.

No. I already said that to her before:

“Pick everything you learned about relationships - from experiences with society, your parents and failed relationships - and throw in a deep trash can. 

Preferably in a Black Hole, so it doesn’t come back.”The heart doesn’t take decisions alone. 

Although its main function is to pump blood, it surprises many by being the home of around 40 thousand neurons, forming a network which interacts with the brain. That is, the process is not only emotional, but a dialogue between the two.

It’s like a conversation between them, in a bar, the brain drinks green tea and the heart drinks a beer:

“This person is perfect. Fills all the criteria, physical and intelectual. I am falling in love. What do you think?”Answers the brain:“Wait a minute. Don’t get fooled by physiological signs; this person shows clear traces of emotional immaturity, manipulation and behavior similar to your last boyfriend. Ah, don’t forget the pattern you saw in the guy you blocked on Tinder… and, last but not least, your own father. Remember?”

Replies the heart: “But I already fell in love. What now?”

The brain answers, pragmatically:

“Ignore all your initial impulses and let me handle the situation. The pain should not be avoided, it should be managed. Give me the steering wheel.”

The heart is not very good with rational language, so I like to add:

“Swallow your tears and let daddy handle it.”